Hudič na koncu še z repom mahne - The devil whips his tail as he leaves
Nima smisla zvoniti po toči - It’s no use to ring the bell after the hail.
Bolje vrabec v roki kot golob na strehi. - Better a sparrow in your hand than a pigeon on the roof
Brez muje se še čevelj ne obuje. - You can’t even put on a shoe without some effort.
Osel gre samo enkrat na led. - The donkey only goes on the ice once
Smeh je pol zdravja - Laughter is the half of good health.
Skoraj je skoraj zajca ujel. - Almost almost caught a rabbit
Knowledge is power.  Power corrupts.  Study hard.  Be evil.
Make hay while the sun shines
Let sleeping dogs lie
Know which way the wind is blowing
Fortune favors the bold
You CAN have your cake and eat it, too
Curiosity killed the cat, but satisfaction brought it back
Sometimes you need to throw caution to the wind
The early bird gets the worm
Slow and steady wins the race
Every cloud has a silver lining
Good things come to those who wait
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket
The devil is in the details
It might be time to hit the books
Fake it ‘till you make it
知らぬが仏 - Not knowing is Buddha
虎穴に入らずんば虎子を得ず - If you don’t enter the tiger’s cave, you can’t catch its cub
井の中の蛙大海を知らず - A frog in a well does not know the great sea
明日は明日の風が吹く - Tomorrow’s winds will blow tomorrow
雨降って地固まる - After rain falls, the ground hardens
七転び八起き - Fall seven times, stand up eight
温故知新 - Review past, know future
Si buscas resultados distintos, no hagas siempre lo mismo. - If you are looking for different results, don’t always do the same thing.
Los buenos pensamientos, producirán buenos actos - Good thoughts will produce good deeds
Las pasiones son los viajes del corazón - Passions are the journeys of the heart.
Haz bien y no mires a quién - Do good things and don’t look at (compare yourself to) others
Al mal tiempo, buena cara - To bad weather, good face.
Hazlo, y si te da miedo, hazlo con miedo. - Do it, and if you’re scared, do it scared.
Quién a buen árbol se arrima, buena sombra le cobija. - The one who stays close to a good tree is sheltered by a good shadow
Själv är bäste dräng. - You do things best yourself.
`A`ohe lokomaika`i i nele i ke pâna`i - No kind deed has ever lacked its reward.
`A`ohe loa i ka hana a ke aloha - Distance is ignored by love.
A’a i ka hula, waiho i ka maka’u i ka hale - Dare to dance, leave shame at home.
Lana kakou i ka hau'oli o ha'i. - We rise by uplifting others.
I Keka, I Kaa Hoe Pae Aku I Kaa Aina. - Bail and Paddle, Paddle and Bail, and The Shore (end) Is Reached.
Не имей сто рублей, а имей сто друзей - Better have hundred friends then hundred rubbles
Ang hindi lumingon sa pinanggalingan, hindi makakarating sa paroroonan. - The one who cannot look back will never reach their goal
Ang karukhaan ay hindi hadlang sa pagtatagumpay - Poverty is not a hindrance to success
Ang hindi marunong magmahal sa sariling wika ay mahigit pa sa mabaho at malansang isda - The one who doesn't love their mother tongue is worse than a rotten fish
Habang may buhay, may pag-asa  - While there is life, there is hope
Een ezel stoot zich maar een keer aan dezelfde steen - Even a fool does not repeat their mistake
Achter de wolken schijnt de zon - The sun is shining behind the clouds
Where there's a will, there's a way
人はだれでもお山の大将になれる。 - Anyone can be the mountain's general.